README.md, before:

# SteamCMD

This Dockerfile will build an image for SteanCMD containerized. It follows best practice from Valve. Full documentation of how to use the program can be found [here](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD).

## Instancing the container
    docker run \
        --name steamcmd \
        -e PUID=<UID> -e PGID=<GID> \
        -v </path/to/steamapps>:/steamapps \
        steamcmd

### Parameters

* `--name steamcmd` -This is a useful name, you may pick another. If you don't pick a name a random name will be generated. 
* `-e PGID` for for GroupID - see below for explanation
* `-e PUID` for for UserID - see below for explanation
* `-v /steamapps` -You want to mount the installation directory of your games you can use, example using another docker container running wine, or something else.
* `steamcmd` -As of initial commit the image is not on docker hub yet, you will need to build it first. See below for instructions.

### User / Group identifiers

Inside the docker container best practice from Valve is to run the executable as a user called steam. While we want to write outside the container using the `-v` flags, so we can make use of the installed games. We avoid making permission problems by defining the PUID and PGID using the `-e` flags. 

In my instance my `PUID=1000` and `PGID=1000` you can find yours by using the `id` command.

    id


## Usage **IMPORTANT**

To download most game servers, you can login anonymously. After you started the container

    login anonymous

Or you may have to log in with your username, substitute anonymous with your user name, you will be prompted to enter your password and if applicable two factor authentication key. **IMPORTANT** the password will be visible on screen while typing. This is sadly just how SteamCMD was made.

### **IMPORTANT** game/server install directory

Every time you download a game you have to set install directory. This again is sadly how SteamCMD is made, if they improve this I will update the instructions. This is how you do it:

    force_install_dir /steamapps/<NameOfTheGame>

This will make a folder inside the directory which is mounted externally (if you followed the instructions above) for every game. You can then run them in another Docker container or in wine or how you like. It is not good practice to run it inside the same Docker container as SteamCMD because then you would have to save your password in plain text and turn off two factor authentication.

## Game/server installation

Please see the official instructions here.

https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD#Downloading_an_app

Commit message:

Got SteamCMD to run and run at docker start, updated the readme.

README.md, after:

# SteamCMD

This Dockerfile will build an image for SteanCMD containerized. It follows best practice from Valve. Full documentation of how to use the program can be found [here](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD).

## Instancing the container
    docker run \
        -it
        --name steamcmd \
        -e PUID=<UID> -e PGID=<GID> \
        -v </path/to/steamapps>:/steamapps \
        steamcmd

### Parameters

* `-i` Interactive mode for terminal, `-t` I think this one mainly makes things look proper.
* `--name steamcmd` -This is a useful name, you may pick another. If you don't pick a name a random name will be generated. 
* `-e PGID` for for GroupID - see below for explanation
* `-e PUID` for for UserID - see below for explanation
* `-v /steamapps` -You want to mount the installation directory of your games you can use, example using another docker container running wine, or something else.
* `steamcmd` -As of initial commit the image is not on docker hub yet, you will need to build it first. See below for instructions.

### User / Group identifiers

Inside the docker container best practice from Valve is to run the executable as a user called steam. While we want to write outside the container using the `-v` flags, so we can make use of the installed games. We avoid making permission problems by defining the PUID and PGID using the `-e` flags. 

In my instance my `PUID=1000` and `PGID=1000` you can find yours by using the `id` command.

    id


## Usage **IMPORTANT**

After the docker container is created you can start it using the command

    docker start -a steamcmd

To download most game servers, you can login anonymously. After you started the container

    login anonymous

Or you may have to log in with your username, substitute anonymous with your user name, you will be prompted to enter your password and if applicable two factor authentication key. **IMPORTANT** the password will be visible on screen while typing. This is sadly just how SteamCMD was made.

### **IMPORTANT** game/server install directory

Every time you download a game you have to set install directory. This again is sadly how SteamCMD is made, if they improve this I will update the instructions. This is how you do it:

    force_install_dir /steamapps/<NameOfTheGame>

This will make a folder inside the directory which is mounted externally (if you followed the instructions above) for every game. You can then run them in another Docker container or in wine or how you like. It is not good practice to run it inside the same Docker container as SteamCMD because then you would have to save your password in plain text and turn off two factor authentication.

### Game/server installation

Please see the official instructions here.

https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD#Downloading_an_app

## Build from Dockerfile

First you of all you need to have Docker installed. [Assuming linux see here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/). Also you should have git installed (see how to install programs for your distrobution)

    git clone https://github.com/sigboe/SteamCMD.git
    cd SteamCMD
    docker build -t steamcmd .

You either need to run the `docker` command as root, or need to be in the docker group.
